---
layout: post
title: Selected Topics in Geoinformatics Assignment
author: Yanxiang Wang
date: 2023-01-05 19:23 +0200
tags: [assignment]
toc:  true
---
### 1. Oct 10: Shahnawaz - [Introduction to Satellite Based Atmospheric and Climatic Observations](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=61366556782722e46fbec111bf21ecea) 

At the beginning of this lesson, we can see through the pictures that the global temperature is gradually getting warmer. This increase is due to greenhouse gas emissions caused by human activity, especially carbon dioxide emissions, which lead to an increase in the level of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere, thus increasing the surface temperature of the planet. Temperature and the Earth's atmosphere are closely linked. This is because temperature is influenced by the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. And the atmosphere also closely influences the weather, with meteorological factors such as heat and moisture transport in the atmosphere affecting weather changes. We can therefore observe changes in the climate by monitoring the weather. We can set up instruments at fixed locations to monitor the weather. Of course it is also possible to monitor the weather by remote sensing. For example, AQUA, TERRA, TRMM, etc. all use remote sensing to monitor various parameters related to the weather. Today, there are many satellites that provide near real-time observations of several atmospheric and weather parameters on a global scale, and these observations help us to better understand climate trends. Through remote sensing, we can create a lot of climate-related data to help us study and respond to climate change. Remote sensing has an important impact on us by monitoring the weather. It can provide accurate, real-time and comprehensive weather data to help us understand trends in weather and climate change. This data can be used to predict the weather, plan agricultural and water projects, study the atmospheric environment and assess disaster risks. Remote sensing can also help us to monitor and manage resources such as forests, oceans and terrestrial ecosystems. In short, remote sensing provides us with an important tool for studying and managing climate change and other environmental issues.

### 2. Oct 17: Shahnawaz - [Applications of Satellite Generated Atmospheric and Climatic Data](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=d26076035177b3db1bc70c1fc24da68c) 

  - In this lesson, the teacher talked about observations of the atmosphere and climate in India. We learnt about the impact of India's geographical features on climate and the characteristics of Indian summer and winter precipitation. We also discussed the deteriorating air quality in India. Scientists often study climate by monitoring aerosols and have found a direct relationship between aerosols and temperature. Our first case study was therefore to use aerosols to look at atmospheric pollution in India. We found that aerosol concentrations in northern India are high for most of the year, much higher than in southern and central India. This is due to several factors such as high population density, extensive urban areas, widespread agricultural activity, widespread industrial areas, and the Himalayan Mountains blocking the flow of aerosols to the north. Our second study case is the spatial and temporal patterns of surface temperature and rainfall. We found that Indian LST fluctuates higher in the summer months, higher at higher altitudes and higher during the day. We also found some patterns in monthly rainfall. Through this lesson, I realised that satellite observation data can help us better understand climate change. By monitoring climate phenomena such as global temperature, precipitation, storms and floods, we can help predict future climate trends and take appropriate measures to address climate change. And, satellite observations can help us to better manage the environment. By monitoring air pollution, forest cover, soil quality and water quality, we can understand the extent of environmental problems and take effective measures to protect the environment. In conclusion, satellite observation data is an important tool for monitoring and managing climate, the environment, etc. It can help us to understand the status of current problems and to take effective measures to protect the environment and improve the efficiency of society.

### 3. Oct 24 Lorena Abad - [An open-source-based workflow for DEM generation from Sentinel-1 for landslide volume estimation](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=61e728791d0327be72969219f870bc05)

  - In this session, the teacher gave an example of using remote sensing imagery to generate an elevated digital topographic map (DEM) and using it for landslide analysis. Firstly, we needed to query the relevant data and then use a Python script to download the data. Then SNAP software is used to generate the DEM and the quality of the generated DEM data is evaluated. In the evaluation process we need to use the reference DEM data and land use data to assess the quality of the generated DEM. The quality of the generated DEM can be assessed using the xDEM software, which is a Python-based software. We can calculate the difference between the generated DEM and the reference DEM and correct the generated DEM data. Finally we use the DEM data before and after the landslide to calculate the landslide volume and analyse the data. The aim of this study is to develop an open source, low cost, transferable, semi-automatic method to generate and estimate landslide volumes. Such a method could address issues concerning the validity of methods and quality of results based on remotely sensed data, and help to assess landslide geomorphological features. This session has helped me to understand how to use remote sensing imagery to generate DEMs and to realise the power of open source. Open source technology brings a lot of convenience to research. Firstly, the low cost of open source saves research money. Secondly, the source code can be freely viewed and modified, and the software can be easily customised for different uses. Third, open source tools can be used on multiple platforms. Fourth, open source tools allow for easy repetition of experiments, improving research reproducibility. In my future research, I also want to make my own contribution to open source.

### 4. Nov 7 Francis Oloo - [Geospatial applications for food, water and energy nexus in the drylands of Africa](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=bf453bfd047a23844663f532b023dc9f)

  - In this lesson, the teacher analyses the geographical distribution of food and water in the drylands of Africa from a civic perspective. First, the teacher analyses the causes of food shortages, which are mainly due to climate change, environmental degradation, population growth and inappropriate land use. The selection was then researched through face-to-face interviews, focus group discussions, field observations and spatial multi-criteria evaluation. The study found that farming practices were the most important factor affecting food shortages. Farming in low-lying areas near river banks led to erosion and non-point source pollution of river banks, with erosion damaging land fertility and dryland river water quality. Cultivation and grazing close to rivers, combined with periodic droughts, were highlighted as the main drivers of degradation. Potential solutions to address degradation in these areas could include: a. Providing extension services and civic education on conservation b. The need for a community-driven natural resource and land use plan c. Addressing power dynamics in land ownership and land use to promote sustainable use and management of land resources. In addition, remote sensing tools allow for continuous monitoring of regional environmental conditions, and big data on Earth observations and related analytical methods and tools are a rich resource for understanding the dynamics of dryland ecosystems. Combining indigenous and modelling knowledge, as well as multidisciplinary approaches, research, analysis, visualisation and planning for the future of drylands may be more promising. The teacher concluded with several examples of geospatial research themes. Through this lesson, I learnt something similar to human geography. Geographic Big Data refers to the process of collecting, processing and analysing geospatial data through various technological means. This data comes from a variety of different sensors, satellites, remote sensing, social media, etc. and often includes information such as geographic coordinates, time, attributes, etc. Geographic Big Data gives geographers new opportunities and tools to better understand the impact of human activities on the geographic environment, trends and patterns of geographic change.

### 5. Nov 14 Josef Strobl - [Living Atlas](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=0af243c83fc81dd16e47decb3666d51c)  

  - In this lesson, we were introduced to Living Atlas, the world's largest online geodatabase, which provides a wealth of high quality global geospatial data and map content for a variety of different domains. These include: (a) Terrain data, including global topographic maps, terrain models and terrain elevation data. (b) Climate data, including climate types, climate distribution, climate projections and climate change, etc. (c) Population data, including population distribution, population density, population growth rate and population structure, etc. (d) Economic data, including economic indicators, economic activity, economic development and economic contribution. ArcGIS Living Atlas can be used for GIS analysis, map production and visualisation, spatial data management and location services. It can be used in different areas such as education, research, business and the public sector. ArcGIS Living Atlas data and map content is provided by many different sources, including all levels of government, civil society organisations and experts and academics, ensuring high quality and reliable data. ArcGIS Living Atlas offers a rich set of APIs and tools that allow for easy integration and integration with other systems. These APIs and tools help developers to use ArcGIS Living Atlas data and map content in their applications, supporting applications such as GIS analysis and map production. I hadn't used ArcGIS Online much in my previous studies, so I hadn't heard of ArcGIS Living Atlas, and after learning about it in this session, I'll be using the data it provides more often, which will come in handy for research.

### 6. Nov 21 Stanislav Popelka - [Eye-tracking in cognitive cartography](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=ab78aa63afb382e16348985d372f457a)  

  - In this lesson, the teacher first explains what cognition and cognitive mapping is, its classification, its history and its recent achievements and future prospects. The teacher then explains about the characteristics of the human eye and eye movements. After the presentation, the teacher started to talk about the history of eye tracking technology in cartography, its current development and so on. Afterwards the teacher starts to present his thesis to further explain the eye tracking method in cognitive cartography. Through this lesson, I learned what eye tracking method is. Eye tracking is a method of studying the eye movement patterns of people as they view visual information. This method uses specialist equipment to track people's vision and generate a visual record of how well they focus their attention while viewing an image or content on a screen. With eye tracking technology, a range of quantitative data can be collected, such as the length of time people spend looking at a particular location, how focused they are, which areas they jump to and so on. This data can be used to understand people's attention and cognitive processes and thus help design more effective cognitive maps and other information visualisation tools. At the same time, I am also inspired by eye tracking methods. For example, we can try to make more use of images and other information visualisation tools to help us organise and make sense of complex information, thus reducing cognitive load and increasing efficiency.

### 7. Nov 28 Irina Paraschivoiu - [Participative Urban Planning](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=1c2f248afe554814b65f453e0a4f4eef)  

  - In this lesson, the teacher talked about urban planning. Firstly, the teacher talked about why and how to participate and plan cities. Then map-based participation was explained, as well as the creation of participatory 3D models. Finally the teacher also brought questions about urban issues in Salzburg. Through this lecture, I learned what participatory urban planning is. This approach emphasises that urban planning should be a public process that requires the participation and contribution of all stakeholders, not just the city government or professional planners to make decisions. The goal of participatory urban planning is to create a more inclusive and democratic urban planning process that leads to a more sustainable and just urban environment. It can help to increase the sense of participation and belonging of city residents and to take into account the needs of different communities and people in urban planning, thereby promoting social justice and sustainable development.

### 8. Dec 5 Oana Candit - [Illustrating cities through maps](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=7a6350be22928027a3850e3dec46705b)  

  - This lesson was about the details of making a map, emphasising the need to pay attention to details such as fonts, colours, symbols and map elements when making a map. These factors are all crucial to the legibility and accuracy of the map. Firstly, font choice is very important to the readability of the map. The text on the map should be clear and easy to read and it is recommended that a simple and clear font is used to ensure that the map does not appear cluttered with text. Secondly, the use of colour is also a key factor. The colours on the map should be set against each other so that the individual geographical elements can be clearly distinguished. In addition, the saturation and brightness of the colours need to be considered to ensure that the overall visual impact of the map is not too abrupt or out of balance. The design of the logo and map elements is also a detail that requires special attention in the production of the map. The size, shape, colour and font of logos need to be carefully designed to ensure that they are clearly identifiable on the map. Map elements such as scales and compasses also need to be placed precisely on the map so that readers can measure and locate them accurately. Finally, the teacher shows how a visually pleasing map can be created by using these map details. By considering these details, map makers can better convey information and make the map easier for the reader to understand and use.

### 9. Dec 12 Premysl Stych - [Time Series and Multi-temporal Classification in Forest Studies](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=e87b145a7963b3f35eaa52ca6bc1bad9)  

  - This session was on the topic of time series methods and analysis of remote sensing data and was divided into three parts: an overview of time series satellites, types of time series analysis, and time series tools and methods. First, the instructor presented an overview of time series satellites. A time series satellite is a series of satellites that can acquire multi-temporal remote sensing image data of the same area, such as Landsat, MODIS, etc. The use of time series satellites can provide image data of the same area at different times and can be used to study changes in land cover, natural resource use and environmental changes. Next, the instructor introduced the types of time series analysis. The types of time series analysis include trend analysis, cyclical analysis and seasonal analysis. Trend analysis is used to study long-term trends and trends in the data, cycle analysis is used to detect repeating patterns and cyclical changes in the time series, and seasonal analysis is used to study seasonal patterns in the data. Finally, the instructor introduced time series tools and methods. Time series tools and methods include data pre-processing, data filtering, time series analysis, and remote sensing data classification. Data pre-processing can be used to remove noise and outliers, data filtering can smooth out time series data, time series analysis can be used to study the patterns of change in the data, and remote sensing data classification can be used to extract information about the ground cover. Next, the second instructor gave an example of remote sensing time series in a forest ecosystem, which deepened my impression of time series applications.

### 10. Dec 19 Piotr Trzepacz - [Graffiti as Spatial Information](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=183142026702f39cd4c8a15b4c5cc650)  

  - The topic of this lecture is the transformation of graffiti into spatial information, which involves a number of processes. The following is a brief introduction to these processes: Field mapping: Graffiti can appear in a variety of places in the city, such as buildings, walls, pavements, etc. Mapping these locations provides a more visual understanding of the distribution of graffiti in the city. Language deconstruction: Graffiti often carries specific language symbols, which can be deconstructed to analyse and generalise the meaning and usage of different symbols. Spatial database: The location and symbolic information of graffiti is stored in a database, allowing the management and analysis of large-scale graffiti information. Visualisation of territorial claims: The location of different graffiti symbols and symbols can be marked on urban maps, for example through maps, to give a more visual representation of the graffiti artists' occupation and claims to urban space. Survey research: questionnaires can be used to understand the motivations, backgrounds and behavioural patterns of graffiti users, helping to understand the meaning and impact of graffiti. Theory: Based on empirical research and analysis of graffiti, a theoretical framework can be developed to provide insight into the social, cultural and political significance of graffiti. The combination and application of these processes can help us to better understand and analyse the phenomenon of graffiti in the city and explore the role and significance of graffiti in urban space. This lesson has helped me to recognise how to combine an interesting thing with GIS to analyse it.

### 11. Jan 9 Max Kranabetter - [Optimising Public Transport Planning with GI Methods](https://uni-salzburg.webex.com/uni-salzburg/ldr.php?RCID=60deb1336fadbd7a80f239bf9cc1a5db)

  - In this session the teacher reports on a case study of optimising public transport using a geographic information approach, a master's thesis: Expanding rural transport networks based on mobility demand. the successful implementation of this case study demonstrates the potential of geographic information systems to solve real-world problems. the GIS system can use GIS systems can use multiple sources of data to analyse transport demand in urban and rural areas, quickly identify bottlenecks and problems, and propose solutions accordingly. In addition, GIS systems can provide accurate spatial data to help researchers make more accurate decisions to optimise transport networks, improve the efficiency of public transport, reduce emissions, improve quality of life, etc. Through this lesson, I have gained an in-depth understanding of the application of GIS and realised its important role in solving real-life problems. I believe that in the future, GIS will play its role in more areas and create a better future for us.
